---
title:  TBD
pubDate: 2024-05-29
---

#### TODO

- be a baller.

### AM

**Energy Requirements for a cross-dimensional portal depending on its category** *(0530hrs)* 
- I recently watched [Dark Matter](https://www.imdb.com/title/tt19231492/) (Apple TV Web Series), and it got me thinking about the two ways multi dimensional OR Faster Than Light (FTL) travel happens in media. They are not really the same thing at all, but for the purposes of my point they are. The two ways it happens is: 
  1. A portal opens and closes in a short amount of time and allows objects to pass through it to reach their destination (like Halo, Event Horizon, Rick and Morty, and almost all pop culture media and their idea of *portals*).
  2. The "gateway" exists and objects travel through it (like Dark Matter, Interstellar, etc.)
- The amount of raw energy required to construct the *Type - 2* Gateway would be **IMMENSE** and perhaps of a scale unachievable by humanity (I say this in the hopes that someone thousands of years in the future reads this and makes it happen out of human ego (me saying "thousands of years" should tell you how soon i think this will be possible)).

**Communication in a Large Scale Civilisation** *(0545hrs)*
- All this thinking about FTL has me thinking about the future of humanity quite optimistically. In the sense that we will leave the planet, our solar system, maybe even our galaxy. Well once we figure out how to bend the space-time continuum, pretty much anything would be possible i suppose.
- But how would communications happen in such a society? Being more interested in the technological than the institutional, I suppose Centralised systems would only be useful for data storage, as routing comms through central servers would just not be possible due to the scale of distances and time being too large.
- Then either the ship just carries any and all data / personnel required with her, or we just keep a portal open between command and missions, which again might or might not be possible based on the energy requirements.


### PM

- 
